title: A Message from the Dean

![](/image/s-sadakata.jpg)

Since its founding in 1950, the Law Faculty of Nagoya University has
striven to maintain an open environment, pursuing research and
education independent of exceptional influence. Today, sixty years on,
our commitment remains unshaken. This heritage, of instructors and
students engaged in an unrestrained dialog based on mutual trust, is a
source of pride within our community.

Implementing a philosophy of autonomy, aiming to educate intellectuals
with strong theoretical grounding and endowed with imagination, our
faculty has sought to foster scholarly excellence in the study of law
and politics, while cultivating a capacity for decisive evaluation and
judgment on a broad view of evidence. In concrete terms, these aims
are reflected in our four-year undergraduate program, characterized by
student-driven study in a small-group instructional environment. The
same philosophy underpins our postgraduate and professional education
programs; in these uncertain times, the challenge faced by our
students is to find their grounding, grasp the challenges of the day,
and acquire for themselves the means of transforming their age.

Looking back, it must be said that our Law Faculty has covered a
remarkable distance in the past 20 years of its journey. In the early
1990s, as the Cold War drew to a close and the global economy grew
apace, conscious of the common position of our nation as a member of
the Asian community, we resolved as a Faculty to open new ground in
the study of development processes through active participation in
Asian technical legal assistance projects. The Center for Asian Legal
Exchange (CALE), the institute most deeply involved in this effort,
enters the tenth year since its establishment this year. In the School
of Law and Graduate School of Law today, over 150 students hailing
from East, Southeast and Central Asia purse their studies, and the
Nagoya campus is enlivened by the daily interaction in many languages
of students from Japan and other countries.

Further, since the move to emphasize postgraduate education in 1999
and the arrangement of the Graduate School of Law to offer three
separate degree tracks in the academic curriculum (namely the course
for Researchers, that for Professionals, and the Comparative Law
program), we have sought both in applied research and the scholarly
study of theory relating to law and politics to return graduates with
skill levels commensurate with the specialized demands of their
fields. In the Comparative Law course, we seek in particular to train
professionals for the international stage with an English-taught
curriculum backed up by information technology tools for teaching and
research.

On top of these developments, the Law School was founded in 2004 in
response to the recent reform of civil justice and professional legal
training. With the aim of "raising of legal professionals steeped in
humanitarian sensitivity and endowed with a broad-based education and
superior legal ability", the Nagoya University Law School has filled
its role as the central law school of the Chubu region, with programs
that aim to return legal professionals with an international focus,
experts in the legal affairs of active and agile commercial
enterprises, lawyers with skills appropriate to our
information-intensive society.

In this way, through the School of Law, the Graduate School of Law and
the Law School, we have concentrated for these twenty years on
research and education that goes beyond the focus heretofore on the
reception and practical application of the laws and legal theories of
the West, and sought to derive legal and political concepts from
modern Asian experience, with the ultimate aim, equipped with
comparative methodologies and a newfound capacity for criticism, of
revisiting the study of Western societies and Western theory.

The prospect before us is a frontier not unlike that which we have
traversed in the past twenty years. In addition to our cumulative
experience in education and scholarship, from this year we have the
pleasure to launch two major initiatives: the Campus Asia program
formed with partner universities in China and Korea; and the Leading
Graduate School program which aims to produce professionals skilled in
cross-border institutional design. For the future, I believe that it
is our task to stand unflinching before the deep contradictions that
reside in the dominating force of globalization, the fissures that
permeate international society, and the realities of unequal
distribution of wealth, and to address the challenges of this new
frontier. It is my hope that as researchers, as staff, as students,
working as one, we can strive together for the further development of
our Faculty. This is my personal aspiration and resolution on the
occasion of my appointment.

<div style="float:right;padding-right:3em;">
<b>Mamoru Sadakata</b><br>
<div style="padding-left:2em;">
Dean and Professor<br>
Faculty of Law<br>
</div>
2012.04.01
</div>
