title: Visa


* The minimal information below is provided for 
  convenient reference.
  For further details on financial
  and other matters relating to student life in the
  University, please refer to the [Handbook for International 
  Students][handbook], prepared by the [International
  Student Advising Office][isa].
{: class='sidenote'}


[isa]: index.html#international_student_advising_office_isa

[handbook]: index.html#handbook_for_international_students

* Table of Contents
{: toc}


# Temporary Leave and Re-entry into Japan

When going abroad, students are expected to consult with their academic
advisor and then submit the necessary document to the students affairs
section of Law office ( *Kyomu-gakusei-gakari* ). The form is
available at the office.

International students must obtain a  **re-entry permit**  form the
Immigration Bureau in advance of departure. They will not be permitted
to re-enter Japan without re-entry permit from the Immigration.

# Part-time Work and Permission

International Students who hold 'College Student' status may only engage
in activities related to study and research. However, under the revised
Immigration Law, effective since June 1990, international students have
been allowed part-time jobs if their goal is to earn money for school
tuition and other expenses. Students wishing to work on a part-time
basis must apply for permission. Those working without this permit, and
those who fail to follow the regulations pertaining to the permit, will
be fined and in some cases, deported.

Undergraduate and graduate degree-seeking students and research students
who are pursuing research on a particular topic under supervision of an
academic advisor may work a maximum of 28 hours per week. Auditors are
permitted to work a maximum of 14 hours per week. During long vacations,
any students with the necessary permit may work a maximum of 8 hours per
day.

## Procedures for Obtaining Permission to Work

Students will be required to submit necessary documents including a copy
of alien registration card (front and back) to the student affairs
section of Law office. The application form and other documents are
available at the office. The intentional student exchange division of
the University shall, twice a month, submit the documents to the Nagoya
Regional Immigration Bureau on the students' behalf. Once processing
procedures are complete, the permits will be returned to the students
affairs section of Law office and students may then collect them.

# Alien Registration

All foreign nationals residing in Japan for more than 90 days must
register at a local ward office, which governs their residence under the
Alien Registration Law in Japan. Therefore, international students are
also required to apply for alien registration during their first 90
days.

## Initial Registration

New international students, who are required to submit the registration
number of the alien registration at the university registration, are
required to apply for it immediately after their residence are fixed.

The following items are required when registering at the local ward
office:

Application form

Valid passport

2 photos (4.5 cm Ã— 3.5 cm) taken within 6 months of application

Issuance of the certificate will take about two weeks and can be
obtained at the ward office after presenting their passport. Please
remember to carry this card with you at all times.

## Change of Registered Items

Any change of the registered items: the period of stay, status, address
(new local ward office), name etc., must be reported to the local ward
office within 14 days.

## When Leaving Japan

When foreigners including international students who leave Japan without
a re-entry permit, will be asked to return their Alien Registration card
at the point of departure.

