Title: Faculty History

* Table of Contents
{: toc}

# Establishment

The School of Law was originally established as a department within the
School of Law and Economics in 1948 soon after the end of the Second
World War. It acquired its present status as an independent school
within a National University in 1950, following the law departments at
the National Universities in Tokyo, Kyoto, Tohoku, and Kyushu.

Being a rather young institution it had advantages in terms of facing
the challenges posed by contemporary developments.

# Reorganization

In 1983, the school, facing modernization of the traditional system of
study, introduced a new curriculum, which was consolidated in the
Department of Law, of Civil Law, Commercial Law, Public Law, Criminal
Law and Procedure, and Law-Related Studies and, in the Department
Political Science, of Public Administration, Political Theory, Political
History and International Politics.

In 1997, the two departments, the Department of Law and the Department
of Political Science, were integrated into one; the Department of Law
and Political Science with 8 divisions, including newly established
divisions such as public policy and international relations. This
departmental reorganization aimed at modernizing the subjects of
instruction, improving graduate tuition, and promoting systematic and
cooperative research and education.

The school is now among the most prominent of its kind in Japan with an
excellent reputation for advanced research.

# Graduate School initiative

From April 1999, the School of Law adopted further curricular changes,
expanding the graduate program as a whole, and placing new emphasis on
graduate studies with the school.

This reform was implemented as a response to the societal need,
identified by  *Monbukagakusho* , the Ministry of Education, Culture,
Sports, Science and Technology, Government of Japan (MEXT), for
specialist training and skills. In practical terms, the School expanded
its graduate intake and added further education options in the
disciplines of law and politics.

These new options were also designed to address the needs of
international students from countries in Asia with rapidly developing
legal systems. Courses were established to help all graduate students in
the praxis of research and writing, and a program of guest lectures
conducted by members of the Bar and by corporate staff was also set-up.

# Law School

The next reform, which has profoundly affected all those involved in the
teaching and study of law, was the reorganization of legal education in
accord with the ongoing restructuring of Japan's judicial system. The
aim of this national effort is to stimulate a new consciousness of law
in the nation's structure.

Achieving this objective will require a larger number of judges and
practicing lawyers, and faculties of law will be relied upon more
heavily in their training than has been the case in the past. Together
with a number of other law faculties in Japan, in April 2004, the
Graduate School of Law in Nagoya University established the
'Nagoya University Law School' (NULS).

It is a post-graduate vocational program of legal education and
training, leading to a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree, which will be a basic
requirement for taking the new National Bar Examination. As a key
university in the Chubu area of Japan, Nagoya University Law School
provides the program aimings at nurturing future legal professionals who
possess a wide international awareness and perspective to support a free
coexistent society.

The new program admits not only law graduates but students from a wide
range of academic and social backgrounds. It basically requires three
years of instruction. The existing various academic programs of the
Graduate School have been adjusted to this change accordingly.

# Japanese Law and Language initiative

In 2006, the Law Faculty launched an initiative on
*Legal education through Japanese-taught classes* under the 
*Personnel
Development Program Contributing to Asian Legal Assistance* in the
LL.M. (Comparative Law) program.

<!-- What do all of the proper nouns in the above paragraph
     refer to?  Is a glossary available?
-->

## Introduction

This Faculty established in 1999 a special overseas student master's
program (now the Comparative Law Graduate Program in Law and Political
Science) with the aim of educating the leaders in Asia’s legal
assistance activities in countries in Asia that are undergoing systemic
transformation or development. This is now running on an institutional
basis in the Faculty. Up to now, the language of instruction and
research guidance in the course was English. However, this has been
amended from this year and now there are two class streams on offer; the
'legal education through English classes’ and the 'legal education
through Japanese classes,' both being part of the 'Personnel Development
Program Contributing to Asian Legal Assistance.'

The program as taught through English until now continues as the 'Legal
Education through English classes.' However, the 'Legal Education
through Japanese classes' gives the graduates of the Japanese Legal
Education and Research Centers established overseas a chance to be
educated at our Faculty as one dimension of the 'Long-term education of
legal specialists proficient in Japanese’ project that has recently
initiated by the Faculty. The aim is to educate, in a continuous and
systematic manner, specialists who can understand Japanese law in
Japanese. In accordance with this aim, we are recruiting students for
the 'Legal Education through Japanese classes' for this years
International Law and Politics course and the selection process has now
been set up. In this selection process, the top 2 overseas students
shall be recommended to the Ministry of Education and Science by the
Faculty as candidates for the Japanese Government Scholarships.

The 'Long-term education of legal specialists proficient in Japanese'
project involves the establishment of  **Nagoya University Japanese
Legal Education and Research Centers**  in the overseas universities
aligned with us. In these centers, up to 20 students are selected from
these universities and are taught Japanese with the goal in mind of
reaching Level 1 or 2 in the Japanese Proficiency Test by the time they
graduate. Also, when they have advanced in Japanese they are then
educated in Japanese law through Japanese. One of these centers was
established in Tashkent State Institute of Law in Uzbekistan in 2005 and
one was established in the National University of Mongolia School of Law
in September 2006.

## Method of recruitment, target countries

In keeping with the goals set out in the establishment of the 'Legal
Education through Japanese classes,' the targeted students will be those
who have completed over 3 years study at one of the Nagoya University
Japanese Legal Education and Research Centers which have been
established for the development of legal specialists in the countries
with exchange agreements with Nagoya University or our Faculty, and who
have complete their university education in law and politics.

## Conditions for graduating and obtaining a degree

The students enrolled in the International Law and Politics course must
fulfill all the course requirements to acquire a degree of Master of
Laws (Comparative Law). Also, the students enrolled in the Doctorate
must fulfill all course requirements in order to obtain a degree of
Doctor of Laws (Comparative Law).

## Language used

The overseas students who are taking their instruction on this course
through English shall have their lectures and thesis writing and
guidance conducted through English. The overseas students in the ‘Legal
Education through Japanese’ classes shall have their education conducted
through Japanese. However, even for those who take the legal education
through Japanese classes, the international networks inherent in their
legal activities in their own country after they return will be
important for them and consequently they are required to be skilled in
reading and communicating in English as it is the language of
international exchange.

## Before applying

After enrolling in our Graduate School, the students will receive
classes through Japanese and will write a master's thesis under the
guidance of their supervisors. Consequently, an adequate level of
Japanese and the ability to complete a master’s thesis about a
particular research topic within 2 years is required. In regard to this
aim, it is necessary in the recruitment process for the candidate to
indicate a concrete research topic that they have in mind for writing
their thesis. This concrete research topic for the master’s thesis
should be indicated in the 'Research Plan’ section of the application
form. Candidates should write about the challenges of this topic, their
own awareness of the topic, the details of the topic, and the method to
be used for progressing with the research.

For specifying research topics, please connect to the page of the
Faculty Staff List on the website of the Nagoya University Graduate
School of Law: http://www.nomolog.nagoya-u.ac.jp/



